the story continues as we reach Harry
Potter and the half-blood Prince order
the Phoenix tested out the waters of the
HD next gen systems so half-blood Prince
should be able to jump right in and take
full advantage of next generation
technology while half-blood Prince does
keep the open world Hogwarts from
Phoenix but most of the new additions
make half-blood Prince seem lazy by
comparison half-blood Prince adapts the
story just about as well as the film did
which is to say that there's little
regarding Voldemort's origins and a
bunch of romantic subplots that don't
really add up to anything most of the
scenes from the film are here again but
like in Phoenix there's just not enough
moments from the film that are easy to
turn to playable moments you'll also
find yourself flying through Harry's
sixth year as the game can be completed
in about three hours the game's length
can be slightly extended if you search
for all the collectibles that the game
offers as mentioned before the game
brings back the open-world Hogwarts
though this time there's not much
freedom to explore it right at the start
of the game in Phoenix most of the
castle was open to you right at the
beginning but half-blood Prince chooses
to lock off sections of the castle until
the game feels like letting you explore
the other areas this time you'll be
searching around Hogwarts for school
crest which are placed around the school
and this is a better method of
exploration than Harry simply being the
Hogwarts janitor collecting all of the
crests will slowly unlock characters for
you to use in the game's two-player
dueling mode but new characters don't
really play any different from Harry you
can also find locations now by summoning
nearly headless Nick in place of the
marauders map and he will guide you
around in order to find your location
and this does work much better than the
footprint system from one of the Phoenix
but let's face it the most disappointing
parts of Phoenix was the EA created an
immersive Hogwarts they just forgot to
put anything engaging for players to do
in it EA believes they have remedied
this by providing three new activities
for players the three activities are
potion making Quidditch and a refined
dueling system the game constantly has
you're doing all three activities
throughout the game and this would be
fine if the three activities were any
real fun to take part in potion-making
has you following a set of instructions
in order to craft potions this is fun
for the first few times the game has you
brewing potions so often you'll be bored
of it long before the end of the game
the game also tends to have you making
potions at the weirdest of times for
example you'll end up going to
Slughorn's Christmas party and be asked
to make a punch and then during the
scene when Harry takes Felix Felicis you
have to make Slughorn a fertilizer
potion
also there's no real changes to the
mechanics of potion-making as the game
goes on the controls for potion-making
have you selecting the right ingredients
and then pouring them into a cauldron
however the controls can be a bit
awkward especially in regards to pouring
in potions and dropping in ingredients
be prepared to start the entire minigame
over again just because you couldn't
drop that rad spleen correctly on the
wii motion controls probably make this a
bit easier but using an analog stick and
a d-pad just makes it become cumbersome
which finally returns to the series and
it couldn't be more of a letdown which
now has hairy flying around on Rails
with the player just navigating through
giant stars in order to increase time
for Harry to catch the snitch since all
you do is navigate Harry while on Rails
you don't really feel like you're in any
control there's no way to speed up or
slow down so there's no sense of speed
as Harry moves around the stadium also
the game catches the snitch for you
automatically making the three-minute
you'll spend flying around the Quidditch
pitch trying to go through stars seem
even more pointless as you know how you
will catch the snitch regardless of your
actions
but the real flow with Quidditch is that
the game forces you into warm-ups before
going into an actual Quidditch match a
warm-up involves Harry flying around
through stars just like in a real match
the only difference here is that there
are several practice dummies that Harry
has to crash into in order to gain more
time the warm-ups give you no advantage
in a real mansion since how you will
automatically catch the snitch anyway
what's the point in practicing the warm
ups are boring enough on their own but
then to have to go into a real match and
fly through the stars all over again
with no challenge just makes Quidditch
so dull and tedious and then there's the
refined dueling system which frankly is
so broken it's almost humorous you and
your opponents now have health bars and
Harry can now dodge incoming spells
bells for dueling now includes stupefy
expelliarmus
protego and levy corpus at first dueling
seems alright that is if you fight fair
this means you'll keep your distance
from an opponent and wait for them to
get up after you've knocked them down
however you're much more likely to knock
them down and then charge into them
spamming stupefy as you go however
dueling becomes a complete joke after
you've learned the corpus since levy
corpus has your opponents hanging in
midair for a few seconds all you have to
do is charge up stupefy to max power hit
your enemy and you win and this strategy
even works on the game's final bosses
making the games ending completely void
of any challenge or tension so the game
seems to be really proud of its dueling
system since the game has a ton of duels
for you to engage in
you might just be walking down to the
Quidditch pitch when a Slytherin will
suddenly attack you in fact during one
mission strand which had me going down
to visit Hagrid I had to fight Crabbe
and Goyle a series of three times in
regards to the side missions that the
game has there are actually a bunch of
things to do the main problem is that
they're the same three things you've
been doing in the main game you can make
potions in potions Club duel with other
Hogwarts students in the dueling Club
and replay Quidditch matches much like
in the main game you'll notice that
these activities are ranked by stars for
your performance though you'll finish an
activity and be baffled as to why one
attempt got you five stars and the other
only for the requirements for getting
top scores are not always clear for
example the only way to get a 5 star
rating on some of the Quidditch matches
is to have Harry enter a star clearly
through the middle and to not have him
touch the sides good luck figuring that
out since the game doesn't make this
clear at all you think with all the warm
ups that the game has you doing they
might have let you know about this
important detail those scoring aside the
three activities are terrible since
they're just the same things you've done
in the main quest and they're probably
the same three things that you're tired
of doing from the main quest the
presentation is good again in regard to
the design of Hogwarts even more areas
from the film have been replicated like
the Astronomy tower in Slughorn's office
character models will go right for the
most part phases tend to look smoother
than they did in Phoenix but now
characters tend to have wide eyes which
makes them look unnatural the character
models for Ginny and Hermione really
suffer badly from this problem and also
what's up with Hermione's character
model I'm sorry that character model
just does not do Emma Watson justice I
mean it barely even looks like her also
there are several technical issues in
cutscenes as for instance near the end
of the game I was having a chat with
Dumbledore who was speaking yet his
mouth wasn't moving must obey any
command I give you without question yes
sir understand what I'm saying should I
tell you to run hide or abandon me and
save yourself you will do so give me a
word Harry your word my word look I know
the Dumble does a great wizard and
everything but I'm pretty sure the dude
can't communicate with his mind in the
end half Lucretia tries but ultimately
fails to build upon the structure from
order of the Phoenix sporran Hogwarts
can be fun but the rest of the game is
so tedious and repetitive only the most
die-hard Potter fans might enjoy it at
least for a while before even they agree
that it all could have been done much
well can EA reinvent this series and
bounce back with the next installment oh
who the hell am I kidding
tune in next time when we look at the
unholy mess that is Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows Part 1
you